Preliminary results show Youngstown City Schools will receive an 
overall rating of Academic Watch on the state’s 2011 state report card, and will show significant 
student achievement gains district-wide. 
The district met two of 26 indicators—11th grade writing and attendance—and every building exceeded the 95% participation rate for testing. The district saw marked improvement in reading 
scores across the grade levels as well as marked improvement in mathematics. YCS was rated as Academic Emergency in the previous two years.
“I believe moving up a rating is indicative of the progress yet to come,” said Superintendent Dr. Connie Hathorn. “We met the value-added measurement which shows that our students made a 
year’s growth, or more, this past school year. That is a significant indicator of the data analysis our teachers are doing to continually pinpoint where each student needs help.” 
Although the official state report card will be released on August 24, current district data shows that one school earned Excellent rating, one Effective rating and five Continuous Improvement 
ratings. Preliminary ratings for schools in CI and higher are: 
Excellent: Youngstown Early College
Effective: Taft Elementary
Continuous Improvement: Harding, Kirkmere, William H. McGuffey elementary schools, Rayen Early College & Volney Middle School
Rating Improvements:
increased one rating: Williamson, Rayen Early College, Volney
increased two ratings: Harding 
increased three ratings: Taft
“Meeting value added and the improvement we see in student test scores can be directly attributed to our principals, teachers and Building Leadership Teams who have focused on collecting and analyzing student data,” explained Hathorn. “I extend additional kudos to our teachers who made the appropriate adjustments in their teaching to address each student’s skill 
deficit, as well as enhance instruction to our advanced and accelerated students.” 
“I am very pleased to see this upward trend in student achievement, especially in our elementary grades,” said Board President Lock P. Beachum, Sr. “It is obvious that we have a lot more work ahead of us. However, the Board and I have great faith that our Superintendent and school staff are on the right track and our schools will continue to make significant gains this upcoming school year.” 
For more information, the Ohio Department of Education has scheduled a release of final, 
detailed information on August 24, 2011.